Alright, so the next topic
we are going to study
in this object oriented programming
is attribute shadowing.
What is attribute shadowing?
The term sounds really fancy,
but the implementation
is super easy.
The concept is easy, but it
has its own meaning.
So without wasting any more time, I
would like to take you directly to
the code part because this is
actually super easy to understand
in the code, rather code rather
than the diagrams and all these
stuff.
So let's create a new file.
Call this one as 03 and this
one is attribute shadowing.
Shadow shadowing.
There we go.
Py.
All right, so we have
seen a couple of things.
First thing that you know that this
is hot is known as attribute.
Yes, these are technically variables.
We have seen variables.
So yeah, internally they are
just variable just like this.
So I can just go ahead
and work on this.
This is also a variable.
So these are exchangeable.
We can call attribute as
variable, variable as attribute.
But the only difference that comes
up here is when you
actually go ahead and have
this inside a class or an object.
So when it goes inside
an object or technically a class,
this whole thing variable
is called as attribute.
Yeah, the functionality remains same.
There's no change at all.
We just like to call it different.
So that is all.
So you got the first
part, the attribute.
But what is the shadowing
for this, shadowing.
Let's go ahead and have
a simple class.
Let's call this one again as chai.
There we go.
And this chai class has temperature.
So each chai has its own temperature.
And maybe the temperature
we are going for is hot.
Good enough.
And what's the strength of the chai?
The chai has different strength, like
strong, mild, light, all of that.
This one is by default strong.
Strong chai.
All right, let's go into this.
So let's just say we have
a cutting chai which comes
from the chai itself.
So this cutting has all
the properties, temperature
and the strength as well.
I go ahead and say that, hey,
I want to print
this cutting chai as temperature.
So can I go ahead and print this?
You might be thinking, all right,
I can go ahead and do that.
No much of an issue.
There we go.
It gets a hot.
All right, everything expected.
Now what happens if I go ahead
and take this cutting chai and take
its temperature and instead of
the hot, I convert this into mild.
Surely I know that
this will be changed.
And if I go ahead and print this
again, the cutting dot
temperature and we'll put up
a message as well, just like this.
After changing looks good.
And I also want
to check one more thing.
Direct look into the class.
So you might have guessed already
what I'm trying to do in this case
I'm trying to directly access
the chai and the temperature here.
Fair enough.
What do you think will be
the values at line number
10 and line number 11?
Guess it.
It's actually good activity.
So what you're going to notice
in this one that if I go ahead
and check it after changing it
smiled, that's obviously and direct
look into the class, it's still hot.
We have seen that already.
We have had a quite
discussion on this one.
Now the only thing which changes
now let's just say I use a del,
which is a deletion operator and
I go ahead and say that
cuttingchai temperature now needs
to be deleted and now after
deleting it I want to check that
what's the value of this cutting
dot temperature?
That's interesting.
You have deleted that in line
number 13 and just after deleting
it you want to check it.
What could be the value?
Is it unknown?
Like is it none undefined?
Don't get the value, get the error
or we get still
the mild or we get the strong.
Lots of question and that's
what investigative study is.
And this is exactly the attribute
shadowing is if I go ahead and run
this, it still gets the heart.
So if somehow the reference
of this variable or the object
attribute is no longer available,
then it fall backs to the value
of the attribute which was
defined in the CHAI itself.
That's the interesting part.
Now let's go ahead and say that
if we don't have the temperature
or if we try to add some value
and we don't have this, here.
So for example, let's just say
in this cutting I go ahead and
say I have a cup and the cup
value is going to be small,
can I go ahead and print the
value?
Of course you can go ahead
and print the value.
Let's go ahead and duplicate this.
And we'll say not after
changing, we'll say cup size is.
And we will say this will be
directly cup surely doable.
Very, very doable.
If I go ahead and look
at this, cup size is small.
No problem there.
We got this value.
But what if I go ahead
and try to delete this one
very interesting case.
So if I go ahead and delete
the cup reference and now if I try
to just print the value, what
will happen in that case?
This time the value doesn't exist.
In the class.
Now this also gives
an interesting result.
You need to see this.
So notice here this time.
This is an attribute error.
The chai object has no attribute
because you injected that
attribute, but you actually
deleted that attribute.
So there's no fallback.
But if it happens that
the fallback is there in the chai,
it will get the value
the default fallback there.
And that's exactly the shadowing.
So if there is nothing
to fallback, the shadow will fall
onto the class itself.
If it doesn't exist in the class,
there is no fallback for it.
And that is it.
That is your attribute shadowing.
Hope you understood this.
Hope you got the concept clearly,
nicely, and please rate us.
Let's catch up in the next video.